why are there internet people it's Bo
again so tonight we're going to talk
about logical fallacies it's a want to
do to the series on this for a while and
somebody brought brought it up so we can
go ahead and kind of do a crash course
on it tonight but before we get into it
I'm gonna tell you story true story I
had to go on this trip did not want to
go on it had a bad feeling about it and
required a couple of flights to get to
where I was going
first flight went okay until we landed
then the tire separated from the plane
on landing now come to find out that's
actually safe like as long as it's just
one tire but it certainly doesn't feel
safe when it's happening get off the
plane change planes get on the new plane
and this one's a jet and as we are
taxiing down the runway smoke starts
kind of pouring out of the plane and the
guy sitting next to me is like man I
hope he doesn't take off I'm like I
didn't even rise that was an option
and so they pulls back around and we end
up switching planes the next plane we
get on is propeller-driven and is so old
there's ashtrays in the plane and I'm
not talking about the one mandated in
the bathroom I'm talking about in the
arm rests of the plant out of the chairs
and the point of all of this is that we
really need to pay our aircraft
maintenance crews more and that is
misleading vividness it's something we
we see a lot of the actual story that
has all of the details and actually gets
your attention has nothing to do with
the claim in fact there is nothing in
that story to suggest that any of those
planes were in the United States we see
this a lot when people are trying to
villainize a certain group well you know
this person from demographic X did this
horrible thing and they tell it in
detail and then they'll use another
logical fallacy to suggest
that well they're all like that which is
a fallacy composition but we'll get
there anyway so when we see a lot of
especially on and on social media is a
pilled hypocrisy and this has a bunch of
different names but a pill to hypocracy
is the the easiest to pronounce so this
is where the proponent the person that's
putting forth an argument fails to live
up to the standard or perceived to fail
to live up to their own ideas well you
know those climate change activists
drove their in an SUV and that's fine
but that does not actually address their
argument about climate change therefore
it's a logical fallacy another one is a
straw man this is where somebody takes
an argument and rephrases it to weaken
it and then attacks the weekend argument
a good sign that you're about to see a
straw man is when somebody says so what
you're saying is mmm no no that's not
what I said
so sometimes you'll see people
deconstruct an argument and that's good
take it piece by piece but a lot of
times when people do that they only
attack the weakest piece and that is a
stronger the genetic fallacy assuming
that something is bad because it came
from something bad and we see this a lot
a good example of that would be the
military developed the Internet
therefore it's a weapon of war no it's
not what it means it's the the final
product in that's relevant today may not
have anything to do with where it came
from a pill to belief or a pill to
majority this is basically bandwagon if
something is true because everybody
believes it's true like the world being
flat appeal to to dress tradition this
is one I hate and we see a lot of this
and this is you support a conclusion
because it's always been done that way
and that is the worst reason in the
world to do something a certain way is
because it's always been done that way a
pill to Authority you find this a lot in
the back of the blue
crowd it's the argument is assumed to be
true because a person in authority said
it now this isn't the same as deferring
to a subject matter expert this is
somebody that has Authority and this is
normally somebody that has authority and
force so an agent of government a higher
power that is an appeal to Authority ad
hominem this is when you discredit the
person rather than the idea example bow
has an ugly beard and he's wrong that's
not actually an anthem that's just an
insult insults are okay when you're
arguing bow is wrong because he has an
ugly beard that's an ad hoc argument
from ignorance this is assuming that
something is true because it can't be
proven false and this is a really
dangerous one because once people start
falling for this this is when you see
them start to embrace a lot of fringe
theories Donald Trump is really a giant
lizard but you won't be able to prove
that because you know there's the secret
society once you go down that road it's
very hard to come back cherry-picking
data that's pretty obvious that's when
politicians normally will select
specific data that has already been
determined to give them the outcome they
want and we see a lot of this and a lot
of debates you can have the same study
and both sides will try to use it
because they're only using a piece of it
slippery slope
now slippery slope is not the same as a
chain of events a slippery slope is well
if we let these people get married well
then people will marry dogs
it's normally absurd and there is no
causal relationship between step one and
step two that's different from if we
pull funding from this program people
will go hungry there's a chain of events
there the Nirvana fallacy and this is
one that I cannot beat out of myself
solutions to problems have to be perfect
if they're not perfect you dismiss them
you're not supposed to do that
I have a problem with that it's still
something I do moving the goalposts you
see this a lot on um in the comment
section will prove that Trump spent a
hundred million dollars on golf well
here's a source prove Obama didn't spend
more as soon as the requirement for
evidence starts being increased just
walk away at that point you know you're
dealing with somebody that doesn't
actually care about information false
dichotomy false dilemma two choices are
presented and they're presented as if
they're the only two choices you either
like chicken or steak
there's no vegans in this world we see
this a lot from politicians because they
try to simplify things and they will
paint one option as horrible and the
option they favor as it's really your
only choice no there's always other
choices fallacy of composition it's
where you assume
that something is true for the whole
thing because it's true for a part of it
you normally find this with people that
are trying to disparage a demographic
you know this person of demographic X
did this horrible thing therefore
they're all like that it's not true
devine fallacy this is when something
incredible happens something shocking
something just amazing
the desire to attribute it to something
supernatural or a phenomenon that is
beyond our control anything that that
isn't present in the real world nothing
that can be proven there's a lot of
things that happen where people just
don't want to accept that the world is a
bad place sometimes so they attribute it
to a lot of French theories and that is
divine fallacy argument to moderation
and that is where you assume that
compromise is correct it's not always
correct you can have two opposing sides
and the one of them is going to be right
the middle ground is not always where
you want to end up and this is
especially true with arguments recently
about where we want to go as a as a
nation and then on top of all of these
you have argument from fallacy also
known as the fallacy fallacy just
because one of these fallacies was used
does not mean the argument is wrong
somebody can cherry-pick data and a
pilchard tradition and use misleading
vividness to tell you that Windows is
the most popular operating system just
because they used fallacious arguments
doesn't mean that the argument is wrong
okay so I know this is a little dry but
I've a feeling we're going to need this
information
in the coming year anyway it's just a
fault y'all have a good night